The Joe Rogan experience.
Again, I, I keep going back to that one point, which is,
it doesn't really matter what the facts are anymore.
It does it as an example today was now I'm kind of bouncing around a little bit,
but today was, uh, uh, hearings up on the hill. Uh, the, uh,
Senate arm services committee was holding hearings. So who to the, they have,
they had secretary defense, Lloyd Austin. They had, uh, uh, CENTCOM commander,
uh, general McKenzie, great guy. They had, uh,
the chairman of the joint chief of staff, uh, general Millie.
So they all to, to the, to the last one said, yes,
uh, we were advising the president that, um,
you know, our advice is to maintain a small troop presence,
minimum of 2,500 troops. Right. Um, in Afghanistan.
Um, and our belief was not that it would collapse as quickly as it did,
but that it would collapse if you took those advisors,
those troops out that it would collapse maybe by fall this fall.
Uh, and yet you've got the president saying,
I don't recall being told any of that. And that's okay now because no,
and nobody's questioning it, right. Nobody's saying, saying, well, well,
hold on. No. How about some pushback? How about saying,
what do you mean you don't recall?
This is one of the most important decisions you've made or will be making.
And don't recall whether you're senior,
top military advisors were telling you that in their advice,
keep the troops in there for a period of time. And he's saying, I,
I don't remember. And there's really no serious pushback this whole hearing.
If anybody wants to know what Washington DC is like and how that city runs,
I'd recommend maybe on Thursday watching some more of these hearings, uh,
on the Afghanistan process, because it's just on one hand,
it's very depressing. It's just a show.
You've got the senators on the armed services committee who have been there,
who have been privy to all sorts of intelligence over the past few years,
right now, sitting in a hearing to understand what happened,
what went wrong with the Afghan withdrawal. And they're all at thing as if,
you know, they could be surprised by this. When,
when these politicians have been sitting up for Capitol hill being briefed on
this, having the opportunity to ask questions,
doing all the things they should be doing. But now, because it's all theater,
now they get to sit in a hearing in front of some of the,
the senior military commanders and act as a,
if they're a little bit surprised by all of this and oh my God,
how did it happen? How can we prevent it from happening again?
Senator chin Shaheen actually asked that I think it was of Millie saying,
you know, well, how do we prevent this from happening again?
Are you kidding me happening again? Yeah. That's your question.
Jesus Christ anyway, it's it, it it's I tell you what it, it was, uh,
yeah, it's, it's been it's know, fascinating period of time.
So let me ask you this. So the,
the president has the ability to say whatever the, you know, like, so if,
if someone advises him to leave 2,500 troops, he has the ability to say,
I don't think so. No troops.
Yes, yes he does. So he can take all that advice. And,
and the military leaders are saying, look, we, we provided this advice, right?
It is. I, I think it does surprise people sometimes, um,
when they see the extent and if they, if they were watching these,
these hearings and understanding the information flow about stair, look,
there was a lot of talk, right? Yeah.
And in the aftermath of this withdrawal clown show, um, that,
you know, what, what happened, who was advising, who,
how did we miss certain pieces of intelligence? And there's a lot to, uh,
to figure out there, but the idea that,
that the president would sit there in his, in his office, uh,
with all these senior advisors around and they would say, sir,
here's here are your options because that's always,
basically what they're doing. And theoretically, they, you know, they,
they are supposed to be strong enough to argue their point as strongly as
possible, right. They're not there to just go along. So they, you know,
they all come in, they say, we think you should be, you know,
keeping troops in there and the president then steps away
and now Millie McKenzie, others. They all said that Biden listened very,
you know, seriously to them, but there was a political decision here, right.
That political decision was, we're getting the hell out. Now,
the interesting thing is, is that Biden, um,
he kind of wants to have it both ways, right?
He wants to take credit for being brave and saying, we're getting the hell out.
Right.
But then he also wants to blame the previous administration for the reason why
he had to be getting the hell out. Right.
So he wants to blame the Doha agreement that Trump signed in February of 2020.
And what was that? Well, that was when,
when Trump had been registration made a deal with the Taliban and in,
in, uh, in February, 2020, and basically it had conditions within that and, and,
and, uh, general milli and McKenzie talked about those conditions, I think, uh,
today and they're in the hearings actually, um,
there were seven conditions placed on the Taliban for this agreement to
go forward. And there was a may withdrawal date.
Now the administration, the previous administration,
people don't want to hear this, right,
because they're so entrenched in their own camp. Right?
So people who are on the, the hard left,
they're not gonna want to hear the fact that the Doha agreement was based on
conditions, right.
But <laugh> the most senior military commanders today reaffirmed that, yes,
there were seven conditions for that agreement to follow through for us to
follow through. We had eight conditions for the us.
And now during the course of the discussions and the negotiations,
and this whole agreement was based on a power sharing,
the idea was we want to create an opportunity for the Taliban and the,
the Afghan government.
We want them all to come together and create are sharing agreement. Well,
you know, on, on one hand you could argue, you'd say, that's,
that's never gonna happen. Sounds crazy. Yeah, it sounds crazy, but that's,
that's where they were. And you could also argue, and again, you know,
because people are so entrenched,
no one's want to give any credit to whether they wanna give credit to Biden.
They wanna give credit to Trump or any Republican president or Democrat
president. Uh, you know,
the Trump administration did kind of broker the hard, uh,
heavy lift of saying, we're getting the hell out. Right.
There had been talk around the edges and previous administrations about, well,
how long would it be there? Right.
But the Trump administration did finally actually say, let's get a negotiation.
Let's go. And let's set a time, time to get the out after 20 years
right. Or wrong. So they, they put that on the table. They set the table for,
for that, you know, hard line withdrawal,
but the Taliban never met those conditions.
The only thing they did was not attack us troops directly,
but as Millie and Kenzie said today,
they never met any of the other conditions.
So it had been explained to the Taliban that if that was the case and you don't
meet these conditions, we're not gonna leave in may.
We're gonna just keep pushing the, the, uh,
the withdrawal date further to the right.
So why was the decision made to withdraw then? Well,
look in part, I think because, uh,
I think everybody got behind the idea that we can't stay there forever because I
think everybody, you know, understood that it just wasn't happening.
They weren't buying what we were selling. They never have. Right. I mean, and,
and you don't wanna be completely fatalistic all the time, but with Afghanistan,
it's not a bad,
it's not a bad frame of reference to remember all the other times that things
like this have failed.
And so the idea that somehow we were going to build a stable,
pseudo democratic government in Afghanistan was always flawed. And it was,
there was never really any evidence to show that it was gonna happen and
it was propped up. And I think nobody really wanted to tell the truth,
um, in positions of leadership,
whether it was military or government or Intel community.
And so I think there was general agreement that, yeah, we gotta,
we gotta get the out. Uh, and then it came down to, well,
how do we do that? Right.
And we faced some of the same problems at the old opiates faced getting the hell
out of Afghanistan. But I think with this case,
you know, part of it was,
we had pulled advisors off the Afghan units, you know,
two, three years ago, right. That had been a process.
So the withdrawal process had been going on for a number of years, you know,
over the past decade or so, you know, in a sense, right. We'd been drawing back,
pulling out some resource, pulling out troops, lowering the troop numbers, um,
putting more responsibility on contractors.
And once you take the advisors out of the Afghan units, right. In a sense,
you don't have really eyes and ears right. Inside the AF military.
So you can have, you know, president Gotti or, you know, some, Afghan commander,
just telling you whatever you want to hear,
but you didn't have a lot of folks at ground level working
with the troops saying, right, it's this not gonna hold. Right.
Particularly after the Doha agreement. Right.
Once I think that the Doha agreement was made, I think the writings on the wall,
and even the Afghan military could see it. Right.
And they could read it and they could say, okay, this not gonna happen.
We're not gonna keep getting money. We're not gonna keep getting advisors. And,
um, we're not gonna get the air support.
That is really the only thing that keeps us in, in, in power. So,
you know, at some point over a period of a few years, we,
or we were degrading our own ability to,
to actually understand just how bad it was getting. Right. And, um,
so it, then it became a logistical exercise.
You gotta move personnel and you gotta move material out of the country.
And that's where you could argue it
all kind of went sideways. Well, they left behind how much, a lot of, a lot of.
Mm-hmm, <affirmative> crazy. Right? No, we left. We left Blackhawk. Yes. Yeah.
Hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars as a conservative estimate. Uh,
why that's a conservative estimate? Well, because, uh,
partly because you could argue that, um,
some of the material was decommissioned, you know,
some of the heavier platforms were, uh, made nonfunctioning. Okay, fine.
Um, I don't know to answer the question.
I don't know why the military wouldn't have moved more of the gear, the, the,
the light gear out there. In other words, the, the night vision devices, the,
the, uh, the weaponry, right. The small arms, uh, ammunition,
why not spend three or four months right. Getting that gear the hell out. Right.
You don't have the troops to that that require them. Right.
So now you've got all this stored. Now they,
the thought could have been that this is for the Afghan military.
They're gonna hold. But here's the, here's the thing that,
that interesting point that came out from general,
Billy and chin McKenzie during these hearings is that they claim
they're stating,
and I have no reason not to believe they're stating that the general consensus
by the fall of 2020, right.
Was that without the troops in there, once you take the us troops out and the,
um, and, and the money, then, uh,
the government's gonna collapse probably by fall of this year.
It took like three hours. Yeah. It took like it. Yeah. It took 11 days now in,
in a classic piece of Washington speak, I think it was, uh,
the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff in answering the question said, no,
we never saw any assessment that said that the government would collapse in 11
days. He's very specific. Right. He's not saying, uh, in short order. Yeah.
He's just saying 11. I didn't see one for 11 days.
We had one for like two weeks. Uh, so that's, that's,
that's just the that happens on the, on the side.
So they assumed that the Afghan army eventually was not gonna fight the Taliban.
Yes. Yeah. So there was what they're saying is we all, and look,
the Intel community, we've been talking about that for years. We,
we knew all you had to do was study the, the,
the Soviet papers for their time, their occupation in Afghanistan,
to understand how we were likely gonna replay that scenario.
And we did. Right. So, you know, you could argue that, uh,
what should have happened was years ago, we should have like,
looked around and thought this is a exercise, right? Doesn't mean that the,
that, you know, and I think the military today, uh,
the senior commanders today, and during this week,
I think you'll see them make a huge effort to say first and foremost,
the veterans, uh, and, and everyone who fought there and, and, and all the, the,
the hardship it was wasn't in vain. I think they're gonna focus on that.
And they're gonna say, cuz for two decades, uh,
the, you know,
we haven't been attacked on our home soil and in a narrow definition. Yes.
That's why we went in and,
and then it kind of got blown up into this idea that we were gonna create,
you know, like this, this bastion of democracy in.
Afghanistan, but it's been widely known forever. That Afghanistan is insane.
Like it's impossible to manage. Yeah. The Soviets couldn't handle it. You know,
the, the, the whole area is incredibly mountainous.
Like it's very remote.
It consists of these little clans that are run by war Lords.
Like it's not like cobble is essentially the only real city, right? Yeah.
Is there, are, there are other cities there, there real cities there are.
But there are there, they're still run like little fiefdoms and,
and like FTOs a good word. I know. Right. I, I like how you pulled that out.
Right that down, right.
That one down thief them. I don't, well, no, I can't.
Don't know. I dunno how to spell it. It's like something from the Hobbit.
<laugh> what is a fiefdom? Do you know what a FDO is? Jamie?
I think watch the entire episode for free, only on Spotify.